Track 01.19
Maria: How’s your revision going?
Gilberto: Not so good.
I think I can remember most of
the grammar,
but remembering
vocabulary’s a bit harder,
for me anyway.
Maria: Yes,
there are a lot of words to remember.
Gilberto: What about you?
Maria: For me,
it is probably the opposite –
I find the grammar hard
to get my head around,
but the vocabulary is a lot easier.
I’ve been testing myself at home,
and it’s OK.
Gilberto: How do you manage
to remember all the words, though?
What’s your secret?
Maria: Well, it’s no secret!
I have this kind of system for learning
words that seems to make it easy …
Gilberto: OK,
what?
Maria: Well,
when I get home from class,
I record all the new words I’ve
learned onto my phone.
And then I might do something like
go for a run, and I listen to them when I’m running.
And I make up these sentences with the words and say them to myself.
Gilberto: As you’re running?
Maria: Yes, as I’m running –
I just say the sentences quietly to myself.
Gilberto: Do you remember what
the words mean?
Maria: Most of the time.
If I forget,
I check in my notebook when I get home
from my run.
And sometimes
I play the words and write them down.
I think the most important
thing is to keep repeating them.
I don’t know why,
but remembering the sounds of
the words is important for me.
Like,
last week I learned the word ‘shine’ –
you know, like ‘the sun is shining’.
And that ‘sh’ sound at the beginning
of the word
makes me think of light that’s getting
brighter and brighter.
Gilberto: Interesting.
But I don’t know if it would work for me.
I need to see things written down.
I need to look at the word.
Maria: Right – my sister’s like that, too.
She uses vocabulary cards.
Have you tried that?
Gilberto: No.
How does that work?
Maria: She has these small cards
and writes all the new words on a card
with a picture,
or a definition and an example –
sometimes a translation, too.
It worked really well …
for a while.
Gilberto: For a while?
Why? What happened?
Maria: She left all the cards on the train.
Gilberto: Oh, yes.
That’s probably what I would do!
Maria: I felt so sorry for her –
after all that work.
Gilberto: It sounds like a good idea,
but it sounds like you have to be quite
organised to have a card system.
Maria: Yes, that’s true.
Gilberto: And, to be honest,
I think I’m maybe too lazy to write
all those cards and
keep them with me wherever I go!